# Forest-Fires-In-Brazil
PROJECT TOPIC - FOREST FIRES IN BRAZIL

INDRODUCTION:

As many would know, the rainforest is part of the biosphere, one of the four that resides in Earth which works together as a system. Amazon rainforests play a major role in keeping the spheres in balance, specifically supporting the atmosphere by stabilizing the world’s climate, as well as maintaining the water cycle, part of the hydrosphere (Butler, 2019). There are also countless benefits and resources in which they provide human beings with. These resources can range from rubber, oils, and waxes that can aid the industry business, all the way to medicinal and food purposes through plants and herbs that reside in the rainforests (Resources of the Rain Forest, 1999). Of course, coined as the lung of the planet, they play a big role in absorbing greenhouse gasses such as carbon dioxide, and producing oxygen (Butler, 2019). Clearly, the benefits of forests in general cannot be understated. However, there is also a level of risk that comes in the form of disturbances, specifically forest fires, which can cause great harm to rainforests, but at the same time is also plays a part in maintaining biodiversity and forest ecosystem functions (Dove, 2019). This outline aims to learn more about the rainforest in Brazil, investigate forest fires, and its impact on not only the recent forest fire in the Amazons, but rainforests in general.

CONCLUSION:

Forest fires, undeniability, cause great harm to the plants and all living organisms residing within. Unfortunately this damage also extends to the rest of the planet, influencing the hydrosphere, atmosphere, as well as biogeochemical systems such as the carbon cycle. In addition, the result of deforestation can also promote the negative impact of climate change. Therefore, it is important to understand the ways in which forest fires are measured and identified, along with enabling factors stimulating the spread of this type of disturbance. Ultimately, with the example of the recent Amazon rainforest fire, it is very important to acknowledge the damaging effects and ways to cope with forest fires, preventing further damage to the only habitable planet in our solar system - Earth.

